- [Instructor] Application runtime startup
for spring applications involves a lot of activities.
It's a very healthy framework
and there's a lot of context to load,
a lot of beans to get initialized.
Sometimes that can contribute to a slower startup time
than you might like.
Sometimes that can inhibit your success.
Often it's not a problem,
but let's talk about when startup time does matter.
A long startup time, meaning multiple seconds,
six, eight, 10, 12 seconds can get in the way
of continuous integration and continuous deployment
automated testing.
In those types of scenarios,
you're often starting up your application
doing automated smoke testing and a variety of things
like that.
Sometimes starting it up multiple times.
And so a long startup time really can impact
that type of pipeline in your DevOps context.
Also,
you don't want to discount it,
a long startup time can be just plain inconvenient
for a developer,
especially if you've got a small laptop,
having to restart it multiple times during the day
can be a drain on your productivity.
In general,
a long startup time can be an indicator
of bloated dependencies.
We've learned how easy it is to add dependencies
into a spring boot application.
It's so easy that sometimes you add things
and forget to take them back out when you decide
you don't need them.
So just keeping an eye on that startup time
is often a good thing to do,
even though it doesn't usually lend to a production type
of emergency.
Context and bean loading is most of the challenge here.
And in this lesson,
observability is going to be our focus.
Once we think our application is taking too long to start,
the whole trick is how do we see what's going on
under the hood so we can make decisions
about streamlining things.
We're going to look at two types of metrics, our old friend,
actuator metrics.
We've got some new tricks we can pull out of our sleeve
for there.
And also the Java Flight Recorder event capturing
is a tool that we're going to look at.
So let's jump right in here.
The first thing I do want to show you
is how to reveal startup metrics,
very detailed event metrics in your actuator directory.
And the trick here is a class called
buffering application startup.
It is in the spring framework dot boot library.
The way to do this is to make one of these
new buffering application startup.
And it takes a funny little parameter here called capacity.
This startup utility works in memory.
And so it wants you to limit how many events
that you can capture.
This number is a number of events that the startup buffer
will work with.
And then when it's full, it stops working.
So you want to give it a capacity.
10,000 is pretty generous.
You will see that our startup events are more like 400,
but just to kind of have a look at things here,
let's give it a 10,000.
And then we start up our application.
Well, we have to do an additional thing,
which is set the application start-up hook
to be this buffering application startup object.
And then we run it in the usual fashion,
run our application.
Let's see.
So we've made our buffering application startup object.
We've got a run.
We do not require any additional runtime VM parameters.
I think we can just start this.
We want to start the client application.
Hopefully we'll get a successful startup.
Then what we're going to look at here is our old friend,
the actuator directory.
Notice in here in our actuator directory,
we have a new category of metrics called startup
and this beautiful list of things is a list of events
that our startup buffer captured for us.
It's not so easy to read here.
So what I'd like to do is switch it over
to view the raw data and then pretty printed.
And now you can see very clearly the detailed metrics
on all of your startup events that actuator
is now capturing.
The name of the event, beans it's instantiating,
how long it takes.
It's very detailed. However, it's not super readable.
If you've got something you're really concerned about
and you want to drill straight in and look at it,
it's quite useful for that.
There is one trick you can do to help yourself out
a little bit.
The buffering application startup class has an ability
to add a filter so you can filter some things out.
Let's see. This is startup step.
Startup step get name.
Starts with.
And I think we want to start it with,
let's just filter out the spring beans instantiate events.
Now, when we do this, having added the filter,
let's restart.
We will go from,
I think there was 415 last I looked at this,
416 events to, I'm going to reload this.
And now we have fewer events. We have more like 391.
Okay. That's still a lot, but you get the point.
You can filter on events using that add filter mechanism.
Okay.
Now let's look at the second way to get insight
into your startup events.
And that is using the Java Flight Recorder.
I'm going to switch over to the demo API application
to demonstrate this one for you.
It works in a very similar way.
We're going to make a new Flight Recorder
application startup object,
and this one doesn't require any input parameters.
We're going to set the application startup as the subject.
Why do I have a squiggle here?
Better pass it in.
Oh, it doesn't like the typo.
Well, that's silly, but we'll take care of it anyway.
All right. So now we've got that.
Now here for this technique,
we have to add some VM properties.
So let's go to edit configuration.
Oh, I did already put these in here
in advance of the lesson.
So we need two properties.
This Flight Recorder plus Flight Recorder is a VM property.
And also this rather long one start flight recording.
We're telling it how long to run the event capture.
20 seconds for our case will be plenty.
And we're going to give it a file name.
This will save that file off so that we can examine it
in Flight Recorder.
And I will start this just to show you a bit of it working.
And this is telling us off the bat that it started
the recording and it's writing our file to here.
All right,
let's go without much more work into this tool
that we haven't looked at yet.
It's a Java Flight Recorder utility
inside the JDK mission control.
We're going to talk more about this tool in a later lesson.
What we can do here then is open that file
that we saved off.
And then when we open that file,
we can go into an event browser view
down to the startup steps.
Did you notice in the actuator,
we said we had 415 startup steps.
It's the same amount here.
It's always nice when numbers match up.
And then what we can do here is get a much more
human friendly view of our statistics.
We can sort, for example,
kind of the main thing you can sort by duration
the things that are taking the longest right up here at top.
We can see that there are few of these bean context load
events that are taking close to a second.
And then if we felt like it, we could examine those.
We have stack traces down here and we could examine those
and see if there's anything untoward
that we should be eliminating.
You can also learn a lot honestly about spring,
just by examining this type of tracing.
For instance, this post processor,
the configuration class post-process
are part of the context initialization
takes nearly a second here.
And that's kind of interesting to note.
So that's a bit about capturing metrics
on your application startup for spring boot application.